1.	Introduction

The interest in autonomous driving has increased considerably in recent year, both in research and society. To assure the safety of automated driving functions (ADF), verification and validation methods need to be developed and established. The approval of an ADF for public road traffic requires compliance with safety requirements regarding functionality. The requirements include the error-free functional verification over several billion test kilometers. Wachenfeld and Winner [ref] state that the distance to prove an ADF amounts 6.62 billion test kilometers. With a hypothetically 50 % chance this prove would say that the ADF is twice as god as a human driver. Since this distance seems unreal and economically not acceptable, Schuldt [ref] advise a scenario based testing. In order to shorten the test time, save costs and detect functional errors at an early development stage, simulation is well suited. The tool is also ideally suited to create any number of scenarios and to present critical driving situations without endangering people.
The scenario based testing proposed three different stages to describe scenarios systematically: functional, logical and concrete. The term functional states a linguistic description which allows experts to talk about scenarios at an early stage of the development process. In logical scenarios parameters and ideally their probability distributions are provided. Finally, concrete scenarios specify a distinct value for each parameter which makes them feasible to be executed reproducible in a simulation or on proving grounds. 
This kind of description uses the subdivisions of the six-layer model by Eckstein [ref], which is based on the layer model in Schuldt [ref]. In this model a scenario get divided in basic components and only an interaction between all the six layers represents a complete scenario. The three lower layers describe the static part of the scenario, i.e. the road. Layer four focuses on moving objects, whereas layer five and six describe environmental conditions and vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication, respectively. Detailed discussion in [ref hendrik eindhoven] (oder schreibt man das nicht?)
Current research initiatives such as SET Level 4to5 (footnote?) address simulative scenario based testing with focus on inner city traffic. Besides layer four which describes the dynamic behavior of all participants, the static scenery has to be taken into account as well. The latter is described within layer one to three and has to be defined in a logical and concrete manner, respectively. The open source standard format OpenDRIVE [ref asam] is suitable for concrete descriptions of road networks and is widely used in industry and research. However, by now there is no standardized logical road description format which is easy to use and capable to be transfered into OpenDRIVE. 
This article introduces a prototypical logical description language for complex road networks and a tool which generates concrete, standardized OpenDRIVE maps which may be used for the simulative testing of ADF. An example which outlines the idea of the concept is shown in Fig.~\ref{fig_motivation

2.	Related Work

During the research initiative PEGASUS [ref] these concepts have been developed and utilized within the domain German motorway. Furthermore, the main focus has been on layer four. Nevertheless, when moving the testing domain to inner city scenarios such as the driving behavior on intersections, layers one to three are much more complex. Motorways usually consist of parallel lanes which follow curves with big radii. Such a road is not complicated to describe and generate. It can be done automatically with low effort. [ref. menzel et al.] propose a method to create a standardized road network in the OpenDRIVE format from a logical (and functional) road description. However, inner city intersections are more complex both in the logical description and in terms of the concrete format. 
Noyer et al. [ref] created a format called SimplifiedRoad which is a xml schema to describe long streets without junctions. This logical description is primary meant to create concrete highway sections easily and connot specify all details in OpenDRIVE.

There are basically two different ways of creating virtual roads for simulation in the industry. In the first variant, the streets are build on the basis of recorded real data. Disadvantages are the necessity of the recorded data and the restricted possibility to variate the track. Examples of such systems are OpenStreetMap [ref Internetseite] and Road2Simulation [ref Internetseite].
The second variant is based on the manual creation of a track with a visual track editor. Thereby is always a user needed to assemble the road manually. Examples of such systems are Road Designer (VIRES Simulationstechnologie GmbH) [ref Internetseite], CarMaker (IPG Automotive) [ref Internetseite] and others.
These two different variants for the creation of virtual tracks are difficult to automate. There isn’t a possibility to use parts of an uniquely created track for another one or refill the parameters of a track with new values on an easy way.